# BAC1_Document_Stores
## About this Repo
* This is the code used for my first bachelor thesis.
* The thesis itself is written in German. It is located in the root of this project, the abstract is outlined below.

## Abstract of the Thesis
This  paper analyzes three  DBMS, notably MongoDB,  Couchbase  and  CouchDB. These databases  are  currently  the  most  popular  document  stores. The DBMS  are  installed  in  an test environment and the behavior during different scenarios is measured. The results, which provide useful knowledge for possible application purposes, are compared to each other.The paper first explains  the folowing characteristics: volume, velocity, variability and agility. Traditionel RDBMS don't support these characteristics very well, and therefor the developing of new systems started. Most of them are summarized as NoSQL Systems and categorized into one of four sub-categories: key-value stores, column-family stores, graph database and document  stores. This  paper  focuses  on  document  stores,  but  most  of  the described definitions do also fit the other sub-categories. NoSQL  DBMS are  based  on an scale-out  architecture  in  order to  implement  the  mentioned characteristics. Therefor  the  database  exists  of several  physical  servers  (mostly  commodity hardware)  which form a  cluster. In  presence  of  a  network  partition,  a  decision  between availability and consistency needs to be made. This trade-off is definedin the CAP theorem. Furthermore  PACELC also describes the trade-off  between  performance  and  consistency, which needs to be made in absence of a network partition. The necessary decisions formed the term BASE, which can be seen as a pendant to the ACID concept and which is used in most NoSQL DBMS. In  order  to  analyze  the  trade-offs  a  software  was  written  in  Java.  The  software  is  executed during different scenarios and the performance-, consistency-, and durability behavior during the  tests is  recorded  accordingly. The  results  show different  performance  times  and inconsistencies between all nodes in the cluster and one can see that CouchDBs results are not  as  good  as  the  results  from  MongoDB  and  Couchbase,  which  are  very  similiar. When simulating  an  error  on  the  master  server,  all  databases gain  data  loss. The data  loss by CouchDB is considerably greater compared to MongoDB or Couchbase. The  paper  also  shows  the  conflict  management  of  CouchDB,  which  is  provided  in  order  to solve possible conflicts. This conflict may occur, and are caused by the architecture.In case of a conflict a two-step procedure marks one version as the "winning revision". To resolve the conflict a client needs to operate on the database. 
